 ## Heart Attack Risk Prediction Using Machine Learning
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Heart disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality globally: it accounts for more deaths annually than any other cause. According to the WHO, an estimated 17.9 million people died from heart disease in 2016, representing 31% of all global deaths. Over three quarters of these deaths took place in low- and middle-income countries.
Of all heart diseases, coronary heart disease (aka heart attack) is by far the most common and the most fatal. In the United States, for example, it is estimated that someone has a heart attack every 40 seconds and about 805,000 Americans have a heart attack every year (CDC 2019).
The silver lining is that heart attacks are highly preventable and simple lifestyle modifications(such as reducing alcohol and tobacco use; eating healthily and exercising) coupled with early treatment greatly improves its prognosis. It is, however, difficult to identify high risk patients because of the multi-factorial nature of several contributory risk factors such as diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, et cetera. This is where machine learning and data mining come to the rescue.
Doctors and scientists alike have turned to machine learning (ML) techniques to develop screening tools and this is because of their superiority in pattern recognition and classification as compared to other traditional statistical approaches.
In this project, I am creating a model for predicting whether a patient has 10-year risk of developing coronary heart disease(CHD) using different Machine Learning techniques on the Heart Disease UCI dataset.
